The use of administrative databases for scientific research and public policymaking is challenging with respect to quality validation, as these databases were originally created for other purposes. The validation stage precedes the process of transformation into qualified data capable of supporting research efforts and aspects of surveillance and decision-making by government stakeholders.

The exploratory investigation of these data is the initial quality validation step. It is assumed that this type of data is organized within a hierarchy of categories that capture information of interest and quantify epidemiological, public health, economic, and governmental intervention factors. Patterns are inferred from a combination of one or more variables. Exploratory analysis of the records enables the selection of variables that best represent the phenomenon under study. A continuous exploratory process improves quality assessment by providing reference metrics and indicators. More broadly, it helps monitor the trajectory of information and its transformation over time, data and its variables, thereby supporting the monitoring of the social information landscape.

Metadata capable of describing the number of records and variables, in addition to specificities and statistical relationships, allows the researcher to become familiar with the data and better understand the potential of the elements contained in the dataset to provide information useful for research applications.

Proposing a model based on Data Curation, capable of producing metadata describing the structure, content, and statistical conditions of the information contained in original, non-validated databases for use in quality evaluation and validation, represents a significant Curation Challenge for the investigation of data from both the Brazilian Unified Health System and other governmental agencies, such as the Brazilian Unified Registry for Social Programs, in the context of Big Data.

Maintaining the quality of data used for research purposes is one of the responsibilities of Data Curation. The challenge of building a quality validation model aimed at producing metadata is the definition optimal reporting techniques focusing on describing data patterns, validating database structure and determining its potential for revealing relevant information. A detailed exploratory analysis must seek to obtain an expanded understanding of the data under investigation.

Make a note of something, [[Guide to Applying the Data Validation Methodology]], or try [the Importer](https://help.obsidian.md/Plugins/Importer)!

When you're ready, delete this note and make the vault your own.